# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2019-12-23 Bi-weekly Update

This documents discussion at weekly team meetings

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos:  
Total Images Taken: 0

No imaging hardware has been recieved to date.

## Geoscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Uploaded XXX basic records
 - Worked with Arctos DBA, uploaded 2,686 map quad higher geography to be used for paleo data migration.
 - Added 34 formations to Geology code table
 
**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration documentation.
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
 
### Nicole
**Complete**
 - Added bullet point version of [Elevator Speech](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/blob/master/NMMNH/Elevator_speech.markdown
 
 **In Process**
 - Adding additional accession agents to Arctos. Bulkloading accessions into Arctos. 175 Accessions added this week (these are fossil accessions that are 'empty' right now - no specimen or locality records reference these accessions. As we clean up accessions post-grant, these accessions will likely be filled with existing 'no accession' specimens).
 - Total tally of NMMNHS paleo agents added to Arctos is 746.
 - Reviewing taxon and part data as requested.
 - Picked a higher taxon authority for the vertebrate paleontology collections (Vertebrate Paleontology, 3rd Ed., Benton, Appendix "Classification of the Vertebrates"
  - Researching [6 formations](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/issues/175#issuecomment-567642337) that are in MS Access but aren't readily found on line.

### Hannah
**Complete**
 - 2,695 higher geography quad maps compiled

**In Process**
 - Researching for specimen photography protocol
 - Locating unknown paleo parts within the collection to verify part names
 - Reseacrching taxa
 
### Lucius
**In Process**
  - Researching names for taxa that are not in Arctos and do not appear to be valid per Arctos validation tool.
 
## Bioscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Added 59 higher geography for mollusk collection
 
### Lindsey
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Standardizing data on remaining Herbarium records for bulkload to Arctos
 - Working on bulkloading herbarium cat# records 1000-1999
 - Mentoring Paula on bulkloading procedures for the mollusck bulkload
 
### Paula
 **Complete**
 
 
 **In Process**
 - Creating mollusc bulkload templated and method for bulkloading mollusc records
 - Cleaning up taxon and geography information for entire invertabrate collection
 
## Discussion Topics

### SPNHC
 - Teresa will be leading Creating and Refining Controlled Vocabularies in Arctos
 - Suggest we submit an abstract to <a href="http://www.spnhc-icomnathist2020.com/s7-3sharing-sensitive-species-data-in-a-digital-world-where-are-we-and-where-do-we-need-to-go/">S7.3 Sharing Sensitive Species Data in a Digital World: Where are we, and where do we need to go?</a> regarding the recent addition of the "access = private" function. Created [workshop project in GitHub](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/projects/5)

### Social Media
Need to document social media strategy
 - Mollusc Monday, Mammal Monday (Paula)
 - Fossil Friday (Hannah)
 
### Tracking Time
It would be good for us to figure out how long it takes to complete specific tasks.
 - Average time to manually enter a single catalog record
 - Average time to research and add a new taxon name to Arctos
 - Average time to add higher geography (map quads) to Arctos
Anything else?
