# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2019-11-26 Bi-weekly Update

This documents discussion at weekly team meetings

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos:  
Total Images Taken: 0

No imaging hardware has been recieved to date.

### Geoscience
#### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Wrote [How To Add Geology Attributes to a Locality](http://handbook.arctosdb.org/how_to/How-to-Add-Geology-Attributes-to-a-Locality.html)
 
**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration documentation.
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
 - Drafted [elevator talks](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/blob/master/NMMNH/Elevator_speech.markdown).
 
#### Nicole
**Complete**

 
 **In Process**
 - Adding additional accession agents to Arctos. Bulkloading accessions into Arctos. 175 Accessions added this week (these are fossil accessions that are 'empty' right now - no specimen or locality records reference these accessions. As we clean up accessions post-grant, these accessions will likely be filled with existing 'no accession' specimens).
 - Total tally of NMMNHS paleo agents added to Arctos is 746.
 - Reviewing taxon and part data as requested.
 - Picked a higher taxon authority for the vertebrate paleontology collections (Vertebrate Paleontology, 3rd Ed., Benton, Appendix "Classification of the Vertebrates"

#### Hannah
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Creating a Higher Geography bulkload of approximately 2375 Quad Maps. Information has been gathered for Quad Map Bulkload to date: 

 
#### Lucius
**In Process**
  - Researching names for taxa that are not in Arctos and do not appear to be valid per Arctos validation tool.
 
### Bioscience
#### Teresa
**Complete**

 
#### Lindsey
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Standardizing data on remaining Herbarium records for bulkload to Arctos
 - Working on bulkloading herbarium cat# records 1000-1999
 - Mentoring Paula on bulkloading procedures for the mollusck bulkload
 
#### Paula
 **Complete**
 
 
 **In Process**
 - Entering Bird records manually. Records entered to date: 526 (520 in bulkloader awaiting approval, 6 in Arctos)
 - Creating mollusc bulkload templated and method for bulkloading mollusc records
 - Editing cat# 1-98 mollusc records for bulkloading.
   - deleted and fixing
 - Editing cat# 98-198 mollusc records for bulkloading
 - Cleaning up taxon and geography information for entire invertabrate collection
 
## Discussion Topics

### Social Media
Need to document social media strategy
 - Mollusc Monday, Mammal Monday (Paula)
 - Fossil Friday (Hannah)
 
### Tracking Time
It would be good for us to figure out how long it takes to complete specific tasks.
 - Average time to manually enter a single catalog record
 - Average time to research and add a new taxon name to Arctos
 - Average time to add higher geography (map quads) to Arctos
Anything else?
