# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2020-01-20 Bi-weekly Update
(Activity from 2020-01-06 through 2020-01-19)

This documents discussion at weekly team meetings

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos:  5,756
Total Images Taken: 0

Most imaging hardware has been recieved and is being inventoried and set up.

## Geoscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Completed "Manage Collection" for Paleo and Geol adding museum logo to record header and details for future publication to aggregators.
 - Updated "[How to Manage a Collection](http://handbook.arctosdb.org/how_to/How-to-Manage-a-Collection-in-Arctos.html)" for the Arctos community.
 - Reviewed all chronostratigraphy terms used in localities. Added 12 terms to the Arctos code table and sent 39 terms to Nicole for review.
 - Added definitions to 68 Chronostratigraphy - International Commission on Stratigraphy terms in the [geology code table](http://arctos.database.museum/info/ctDocumentation.cfm?table=CTGEOLOGY_ATTRIBUTE).
 - Added 46 Chronostratigraphy - International Commission on Stratigraphy terms (all terms from Phanerozoic to present) to the [geology code table](http://arctos.database.museum/info/ctDocumentation.cfm?table=CTGEOLOGY_ATTRIBUTE).
 - Created video tutorial for uploading small batches of media to TACC
 - Created video tutorial for bulkloading media metadata
 
**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration documentation.
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
  - Added 746 basic paleo records (geology needs some correction - awaiting merge of localities L-100_199)
  - Drafted [abstract for SPNHC presentation on private loaclities](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/issues/30).
 
### Nicole
**Complete**

 
 **In Process**
 - Adding additional accession agents to Arctos. Bulkloading accessions into Arctos. 175 Accessions added this week (these are fossil accessions that are 'empty' right now - no specimen or locality records reference these accessions. As we clean up accessions post-grant, these accessions will likely be filled with existing 'no accession' specimens).
 - Total tally of NMMNHS paleo agents added to Arctos is 746.
 - Reviewing taxon and part data as requested.
 - Researching [formations](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/issues/175#issuecomment-567642337) that are in MS Access but aren't readily found on line.

### Hannah
**Complete**
 

**In Process**
 - Researching geology terms
 - Researching for specimen photography protocol
 - Researching taxa
 
### Lucius
**In Process**
  - Researching names for taxa that are not in Arctos and do not appear to be valid per Arctos validation tool.
 
## Bioscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Completed "Manage Collection" for all collections adding museum logo to record header and details for future publication to aggregators. 
 
### Lindsey
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Standardizing data on remaining Herbarium records for bulkload to Arctos
 - Working on bulkloading herbarium cat# records 1000-1999
 - Mentoring Paula on bulkloading procedures for the mollusck bulkload
 
### Paula
 **Complete**
 
 
 **In Process**
 - Creating mollusc bulkload templated and method for bulkloading mollusc records
 - Cleaning up taxon and geography information for entire invertabrate collection
 
## Discussion Topics

### SPNHC
 - Teresa will be leading Creating and Refining Controlled Vocabularies in Arctos
 - Suggest we submit an abstract to <a href="http://www.spnhc-icomnathist2020.com/s7-3sharing-sensitive-species-data-in-a-digital-world-where-are-we-and-where-do-we-need-to-go/">S7.3 Sharing Sensitive Species Data in a Digital World: Where are we, and where do we need to go?</a> regarding the recent addition of the "access = private" function. Created [workshop project in GitHub](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/projects/5)
- we can take leave before or after!
- book your own travel and get reimbursed within the next two weeks
- budget limits will get emailed to everyone (approx $3,900) - Lindsey
- share your research on flights and lodging
- flexing time for part time people

#### Open Items
- computers, monitors not here
- photoshop
- 3D imager
- new ethernet March 1st
- no internet for paleo digitization station currently
- red bar on Excel

#### Gila Conference
- Jason, Hannah and me
- stay at Joe's brother's house?
- Museum suburban for transport
- potential per-diem from museum
- leave Thursday, return Sunday? depends on start time on Friday and schedule on Saturday




