# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2020-02-03 Bi-weekly Update
(Activity from 2020-01-20 through 2020-02-02)

This documents discussion at bi-weekly team meetings

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos:  
Total Images Taken: 0

Most imaging hardware has been recieved and is being inventoried and set up.

## Geoscience
### Teresa
**Complete**

 
**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration documentation.
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
  - Added 746 basic paleo records (geology needs some correction - awaiting merge of localities L-100_199)
  - Drafted [abstract for SPNHC presentation on private loaclities](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/issues/30).
  - Normalized and sent 604 "Site Found By" locality attributes to Arctos DBA for upload
  - Normalized and sent 2,482 "Site Found Date" locality attributes to Arctos DBA for upload
  - Normalized and sent 12,188 "Site Identifier" locality attributes to Arctos DBA for upload
  - Normalized and sent 478 "TRS Aliquot" locality attributes to Arctos DBA for upload
  - Acquired paleo imaging protocols/workflows from Yale Peabody - stored in N:\GeoScience\Arctos\Imaging
 
### Nicole
**Complete**

 
 **In Process**
 - Adding additional accession agents to Arctos. Bulkloading accessions into Arctos. 175 Accessions added this week (these are fossil accessions that are 'empty' right now - no specimen or locality records reference these accessions. As we clean up accessions post-grant, these accessions will likely be filled with existing 'no accession' specimens).
 - Total tally of NMMNHS paleo agents added to Arctos is 746.
 - Reviewing taxon and part data as requested.
 - Researching [formations](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/issues/175#issuecomment-567642337) that are in MS Access but aren't readily found on line.

### Hannah
**Complete**
- Finished geology terms 148-433
- Wrote and submitted Gila Symposium abstract- "Sharing Paleontology of the Gila at New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science"

**In Process**
 - Researching stratigraphy links using macrostrat
 - Writing abstract for SPNHC presentation. Symposia S8.2. 
 
### Lucius
**Complete**
 - Researched 83 taxon names
 
**In Process**
 - Researching names for taxa that are not in Arctos and do not appear to be valid per Arctos validation tool.
 
## Bioscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Completed "Manage Collection" for all collections adding museum logo to record header and details for future publication to aggregators.
 - Added 3 higher geography to code table
 - Downloaded 5,798 records shared with MSB and prepped bulkload file for load to NMMNH:Mamm collection.
 
### Lindsey
**Complete**
 - Bulk uploaded ~7000 arthropod records
 - Researched alcohol arthropod digitzation techniques
 - Bulk uploaded ~6000 mammal records
 - Researching and purchasing SPNHC trip flight and registration

**In Process**
 - Fixing remaining arthropod and mammal issues
 - Get mollusc records into bulkload format
 - Getting non-tissued mammal records into Arctos ~450
 - Creating IPM/Arctos abstract for SPNHC
 
### Paula
 **Complete**
 
 
 **In Process**
 - Creating mollusc bulkload templated and method for bulkloading mollusc records
 - Cleaning up taxon and geography information for entire invertabrate collection
 
## Discussion Topics

### SPNHC
 - Teresa will be leading Creating and Refining Controlled Vocabularies in Arctos
 - Suggest we submit an abstract to <a href="http://www.spnhc-icomnathist2020.com/s7-3sharing-sensitive-species-data-in-a-digital-world-where-are-we-and-where-do-we-need-to-go/">S7.3 Sharing Sensitive Species Data in a Digital World: Where are we, and where do we need to go?</a> regarding the recent addition of the "access = private" function. Created [workshop project in GitHub](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/projects/5)

#### Open Items
- digitization computers, monitors not here
- photoshop
--will not be able to get photoshop and lightroom together, will need to be purchased seperately. Look for state funding support
- 3D imager
- new ethernet Feb 3rd
- no internet for paleo digitization station currently
- red bar on Excel

#### Gila Conference
