# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2020-05-12 Weekly Update
(Activity from 2020-05-05 through 2020-05-12)

This documents discussion at bi-weekly team meetings - due to COVID19 and telework, updates will be given weekly.

## Progress Report

On Monday, April 13, the production instance of Arctos went down. Covid-19 restrictions meant that tech support from TACC could not access the system until the following day. Repair of the Oracle box is under way. In the mean time, searches could be made on the ArctosPG test version at http://test.arctos.database.museum

On Tuesday, April 28, the production instance of Arctos was restored, but with the last available recoverable back-up from March 15, 2020. Numbers with lines through them represent data before the crash numbers without a line represent current data.

Total records in Arctos: ~56,760~ 39,446  
Images Taken: 51  
Taxa added to Arctos: ~327~ ?  
Classifications added to Arctos: ~555~ ?  
Publications added to Arctos: ~10~ ?  

### Geoscience Migration Stats  

Stat | Records	| % Complete 
-- | -- | --
Total Specimen Records	| 80,901 |	
No data records	| (1,966)	| -2% | 
**Total records to migrate**	| **78,935** | 	
Records in Arctos	| ~41,646~ 22,434 |	~51%~ 28%
Not yet loaded	| ~25,282~ 44,495 |	~31%~ 55%
Locality Issues (unable to load)	| 13,970 |	18%
*Records with Research Events*	| ~40,126~ ? |	~50%~ ?
**Total Localities**	| **12,345** |	
Research Localities Loaded	| 9,929 |	80%
Locality Issues (unable to load)	| 2,416 |	20%
*Specimen-less localities*	| 3,732 |	30%

## Geoscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
- Loaded 3,158 basic paleo records
- Loaded 1,125 research events
- Loaded 3,596 parts
 
**In Process**
 - Loading records for localities bulkloaded to Arctos
 - Currently 2,418 paleo localities have an issue with either higher geography or stratigraphy which means that they cannot be loaded completely to Arctos. Issues for everything have been summarized for Nicole.
 - Standardizing Parts: almost there! Will soon provide a list to Nicole for things that need her help.
 - Writing data migration protocols
 - Submitted abstract for SPNHC - [Data Management Strategies for the Extended Specimen](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/issues/33#issuecomment-586483125)
 - Project for grant - add funding?
 - Testing of Arctos PostGreSQL
  
### Nicole
**Complete**
- Reviewed and provided corrected higher geography for 544 localities

**In Process**
-Creating bulkload file for new localities and specimens (to date 195 specimens and 260 localities)
-Preparation loan for Arctos
-Working out part names and definitions on Arctos

### Hannah
**Complete**
 

**In Process**
 - Researching for and writing Arctos Article for Black Range Naturalist
 - Editing and researching mineral locality missing information
 
## Bioscience
### Teresa
**Complete**

**In Process**
 - Need to develop insect labels. Cut off spec loc and add coordinates, no autority on IDs, add sex.

 
### Lindsey
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Fixing remaining arthropod and mammal issues
 - Get mollusc records into bulkload format
 - Fix Higher geography of mollusc records
 - Fixing dates in mollusc records for bulkload format
 - Getting non-tissued mammal records into Arctos ~450
 - checking in on everyone's travel for SPNHC
  
### Paula
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Persuing refunds for SPNCH accomodations and travel 
 - Ongoing: documentation of "A Walk Through New Mexico" exhibit for digital curation.
 - Ongoing: Social Media for interaction during quarentine
 - Mollusc parts table
 - Specimen Spotlight Presentation research, writing, and practice
 
## Meeting Discussion Topics

### New Grant Ideas
Review [Ideas Document](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1XIoWyDddDmCqZubPN19NDKZvFQbW0T151vaRyJZQ3bw)

### File Sharing
Use Google Drive for most things, but Dropbox for all Excel files and stuff that needs to maintain a format (forms, etc.)

[Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Fol3x_1L2UOc0PoMQKS7ldOrofJACL09)
Dropbox

### SPNHC

Register for virtual conference
Teresa will present as planned

### Social Media


### COVID19

Keep track of [productivity in GitHub](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/tree/master/NMMNH/Telework)

#### Open Items
- Micro CT scanning available from Sandia Labs (Corbin) - need to prioritize and get a list of stuff that would be good for scanning
- need velvet and lime green background for photography
- Need to publish to journals about the project and potentially going forward about collection activity.
- Define metadata terms needed in Arctos media and make GitHub requests
