# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2020-03-31 Weekly Update
(Activity from 2020-03-24 through 2020-03-31)

This documents discussion at bi-weekly team meetings - due to COVID19 and telework, updates will be given weekly.

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos: 50,167  
Images Taken: 51
Taxa added to Arctos: 316
Classifications added to Arctos: 521
Publications added to Arctos: 10

## Geoscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Loaded 7,816 basic records
 - Loaded 8,449 research events
 - Loaded 8,975 parts
 - Reviewed 231 taxon names
 
**In Process**
 - Loading records for localities bulkloaded to Arctos
 - Currently 2,418 paleo localities have an issue with either higher geography, stratigraphy, or TRS which means that they cannot be loaded completely to Arctos. Issues for everything have been summarized for Nicole.
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration protocols
 - Submitted abstract for SPNHC - [Data Management Strategies for the Extended Specimen](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/issues/33#issuecomment-586483125)
 - Project for grant - add funding?
  
### Nicole

 **In Process**
-Creating bulkload file for new localities and specimens (to date 195 specimens and 260 localities)
-Preparation loan for Arctos
-Working out part names and definitions on Arctos

### Hannah
**Complete**
 - Recorded Gila Presentation audio in Powerpoint to upload to Youtube for teachers/the public to access in order to learn more about NMMNHS data and Arctos
 - 730 mineral links compiled

**In Process**
 - Researching mineral taxonomy on Mindat
 - Reading papers on paleo imaging protocols to incorporate relevant information into NMMNHS paleo imaging protocols
 - Brainstorming paleo social media engagement ideas and platforms
 
## Bioscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Corrected relationship for MSB mammal records
 - Changed barcodes on NMMNH:Mamm specimens at MSB

**In Process**
 - Need to develop insect labels. Cut off spec loc and add coordinates, no autority on IDs, add sex.

 
### Lindsey
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Fixing remaining arthropod and mammal issues
 - Get mollusc records into bulkload format
 - Fix Higher geography of mollusc records
 - Fixing dates in mollusc records for bulkload format
 - Getting non-tissued mammal records into Arctos ~450
 - checking in on everyone's travel for SPNHC
  
### Paula
**Complete**
 - Outline Photography Procedure manual
 - Decide on format for procedures final project
**In Process**
 - Writing Photography Procedures manual
 - Continue writing and editing on procedures and work flows
 - Make list of all images needed to illustrate porcedure manual
 - Photoshop- creating a reliable scale, creating color profiles, etc..
 - Draft SPNCH presentations
 - Develope 2nd Grant ideas
 - Promotional Photographs of Specimens
 - Digitize living garden collection as a community education project
 - Social media assistance for community outreach
 
## Meeting Discussion Topics

### Respond to request from Museum Director
[Draft and ideas document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WaZPR0jUyyNorGMKL4zgxvXVrHLIgtPikHJ4_CuwkEM/edit?usp=sharing)

### New Grant Ideas
Review [Ideas Document](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/blob/master/NMMNH/New%20Grant%20Ideas.markdown) will be transitioned to the Google Drive.

### File Sharing
Use Google Drive for most things, but Dropbox for all Excel files and stuff that needs to maintain a format (forms, etc.)

[Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Fol3x_1L2UOc0PoMQKS7ldOrofJACL09
Dropbox

### SPNHC

Canceled - waiting on instruction from the Foundation.

### Social Media

* Suggest we move documents to Google Drive - this is the kind of thing that should be there where we all can edit/work on it simultaneously and formatting matters not. - Agreed.

* Paleo Twitter is back on line! Add ideas and tweets to Google Doc. (move from Dropbox)

* iNaturalist challenge results - news story hit yesterday so the challenge has been extended!

### COVID19

Keep track of [productivity in GitHub](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/tree/master/NMMNH/Telework)

#### Open Items
- Micro CT scanning available from Sandia Labs (Corbin) - need to prioritize and get a list of stuff that would be good for scanning
- need velvet and lime green background for photography

#### Notes from last meeting
Need to publish to journals about the project and potentially going forward about collection activity.
Define metadata terms needed in Arctos media and make GitHub requests
