# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2020-03-23 Weekly Update
(Activity from 2020-17-02 through 2020-03-23)

This documents discussion at bi-weekly team meetings - due to COVID19 and telework, updates will be given weekly.

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos: 42,351  
Total Images Taken: 51

## Geoscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Loaded 7,617 basic records
 - Loaded 8,893 research events
 
**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration protocols
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
 - Submitted abstract for SPNHC - [Data Management Strategies for the Extended Specimen](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/issues/33#issuecomment-586483125)
 - Project for grant - add funding?
 - Currently 2,418 paleo localities have an issue with either higher geography, stratigraphy, or TRS which means that they cannot be loaded completely to Arctos. Issues for everything have been summarized for Nicole.
 
### Nicole

 **In Process**
-Creating bulkload file for new localities and specimens (to date 195 specimens and 260 localities)
-Preparation loan for Arctos
-Working out part names and definitions on Arctos

### Hannah
**Complete**
- For scale rulers for imaging printed out at UPS and ready for when imaging can continue 
- 720 mineral taxonomy links compiled

**In Process**
 - Researching mineral taxonomy on Mindat
 - Reading papers on paleo imaging protocols to incorporate relevant information into NMMNHS paleo imaging protocols
 
## Bioscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Corrected relationship for MSB mammal records

**In Process**
 - Need to develop insect labels. Cut off spec loc and add coordinates, no autority on IDs, add sex.

 
### Lindsey
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Fixing remaining arthropod and mammal issues
 - Get mollusc records into bulkload format
 - Fix Higher geography of mollusc records
 - Fixing dates in mollusc records for bulkload format
 - Getting non-tissued mammal records into Arctos ~450
 - checking in on everyone's travel for SPNHC
 
 
### Paula
 **Complete**

- Developed tentative protocals for imaging insects and birds/mammals and mollusks
- Developed tentative protocols for imaging herbarium
- Developed tentative protocols for imaging wet collection
- Developed tentative protocols for imaging arthropods
 -Trouble shooting Lightbox work flow.
 - Digitization material research and testing
 - Photographing presentation specimens for mammals and molluscs.
 
 **In Process**
 
 - Photographing arthropods
 - Photographing mollusc labels
 - Photographing herbarium specimens with light box
 - Troubleshooting wet collection procedures and workflow
 - Continue writing and editing on procedures and work flows
 - Started post processing workflow
 - Photoshop- creating a reliable scale, creating color profiles, etc..
 
## Discussion Topics

### Community Engagement
- We have > 42,000 recrods in Arctos - how can we use the data to engage the public confined to their homes?
- Also, how about some social media posts by those who go into the collection?
- Give people a taste of what goes on behind the scenes and how we are "digitizing" the collection?
- Can we get some teachers involved?
- Put something up on the museum website to direct the public to Arctos?
- Start an iNaturalist project to have people look for local biodiversity in our collection and document where they can be found now? (Backyard "weed" watch)

### SPNHC

Work on presentations - conference has not been canceled.

### COVID19

- everyone working from home, but would like to have the ability to have one day a week in the office.

Day | Person
--- | ---
Monday | 
Tuesday | 
Wednesday | Lindsey
Thursday | Paula
Friday | Hannah

#### Open Items
- Micro CT scanning available from Sandia Labs (Corbin) - need to prioritize and get a list of stuff that would be good for scanning
- need velvet and lime green background for photography

#### Notes from last meeting

Need to publish to journals about the project and potentially going forward about collection activity.
Need protocol for media size for upload to Arctos
File naming protocol
Define metadata terms needed in Arctos media and make GitHub requests
