# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2020-03-16 Bi-weekly Update
(Activity from 2020-03-02 through 2020-03-16)

This documents discussion at bi-weekly team meetings

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos: 28,939  
Total Images Taken: 19

All imaging hardware has been recieved and is being inventoried and set up.

## Geoscience
### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Loaded 2,538 basic records
 - Loaded 9,925 research localities
 
**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration protocols
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
 - Added approx 5,000 basic paleo records
 - Submitted abstract for SPNHC - [Data Management Strategies for the Extended Specimen](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/issues/33#issuecomment-586483125)
 - Creating container environment for object tracking.
 - Loan and Project for Hannah's presentation
 - Project for grant - add funding?
 - Currently 7,547 paleo localities have an issue with either higher geography, stratigraphy, or TRS which means that they cannot be loaded completely to Arctos. Issues for everything except Lithostratigraphy have been summarized for Nicole. Hannah conitinues to look up macrostrat links for lithostratigraphy (383 terms) so that terms can be confidently added to Arctos code table.
 
### Nicole
**Complete**

 
 **In Process**
 - Adding additional accession agents to Arctos. Bulkloading accessions into Arctos. 175 Accessions added this week (these are fossil accessions that are 'empty' right now - no specimen or locality records reference these accessions. As we clean up accessions post-grant, these accessions will likely be filled with existing 'no accession' specimens).
 - Total tally of NMMNHS paleo agents added to Arctos is 746.
 - Reviewing taxon and part data as requested.
 - Researching [formations](https://github.com/ArctosDB/data-migration/issues/175#issuecomment-567642337) that are in MS Access but aren't readily found on line.
 - Submitted abstract for SPNHC - [Adapting Arctos for Paleontology Collections](https://github.com/ArctosDB/SPNHC/issues/37#issuecomment-585845604)
 - Reviewing 542 localities with higher geography issues (N:\GeoScience\Arctos\Nicole\Higher Geography Issues.xlxs)
 - Reviewing 45 geology terms (N:\GeoScience\Arctos\Nicole\Geology Term Problems.xlsx)
 - Reviewing 343 TRS terms (N:\GeoScience\Arctos\Nicole\TRS Problems.xlsx)
 - Reviewing 537 bistratigraphic terms (N:\GeoScience\Arctos\Nicole\Biostratigraphy Problems.xlsx)

### Hannah
**Complete**
 - Imaging equipment set up and working properly
 - First two images taken of holotpyes

**In Process**
 - Researching and learning how to use helicon for imaging and photo stacking images of specimens
 - Writing workflows for paleo imaging
 - Reviewing and correcting errors in taxonomy 
 
## Bioscience
### Teresa
**Complete**

**In Process**
 - Need to develop insect labels. Cut off spec loc and add coordinates, no autority on IDs, add sex.

 
### Lindsey
**Complete**


**In Process**
 - Fixing remaining arthropod and mammal issues
 - Get mollusc records into bulkload format
 - Fix Higher geography of mollusc records
 - Fixing dates in mollusc records for bulkload format
 - Getting non-tissued mammal records into Arctos ~450
 - checking in on everyone's travel for SPNHC
 
 
### Paula
 **Complete**
- Photographed 4 bird specimens for loan
- Photographed 2 insect specimens with temporary and current lables for potential format change
- Photographed 8 Birds for report
- Photographed several different kinds of plant for contrast between light stand and light box image quality
- Trained Hannah in basic photography workflow
 

 
 **In Process**
 - Developed tentative protocals for imaging insects and birds/mammals
 - Digitization material research and testing
 - Researching digitization and imaging protocols
 - Researching and troubleshooting imaging workflow set up
 - Writing digitization and imaging workflow protocols
 - Comparing light stand and light box quality for different kinds of specimens
 
## Discussion Topics

### SPNHC


#### Open Items
- photoshop will be installed 3/3/20.
- Micro CT scanning available from Sandia Labs (Corbin) - need to prioritize and get a list of stuff that would be good for scanning
- need velvet and lime green background for photography

#### Notes from last meeting

Need to publish to journals about the project and potentially going forward about collection activity.
Need protocol for media size for upload to Arctos
File naming protocol
Define metadata terms needed in Arctos media and make GitHub requests
