# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2019-11-12 Weekly Update

This documents discussion at weekly team meetings

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos: 1,466 
Total Images Taken: 0

No imaging hardware has been recieved to date.

### Geoscience
#### Teresa
**Complete**
 - 

**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration documentation.
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
 
#### Nicole
**Complete**
 - 
 
 **In Process**
 - Standardizing and correcting Agents and bulkloading conforming Agents to Arctos

#### Hannah
**In Process**
 - Creating a Higher Geography bulkload of approximately 2375 Quad Maps. Information has been gathered for Quad Map Bulkload to date: 
 - Adding names for taxa that are not in Arctos but appear to be valid per Arctos validation tool. Names and classifications added to Arctos to date: 
 
#### Lucius
**Complete**
 - 
 
### Bioscience
#### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Instructed Paula on entering UTM and TRS data
 - Assisted with locality for bird specimen shared with MSB
 
#### Lindsey
**In Process**
 - Standardizing data on remaining Herbarium records for bulkload to Arctos
 - Working on bulkloading herbarium cat# records 1000-1999
 - Mentoring Paula on bulkloading procedures for the mollusck bulkload
 
**Complete**
 - Marked Paulas 98 mollusc records to load, loaded
   - Deleted 98 mollusc records, some of them got scrambled so needed to delete. Paula will fix and re-upload
 - Approved and marked Paulas 521 Bird records to load, loaded many of them but some have errors. Let Paula know to fix.
 - Loaded cat# 1000-1999 herbarium 
 - Checked on Ortery light box order 11/15/2019
 - Sent Charles and email about the registrar workstation, the 4 inventory laptops, and the 2 digitization workstations. 11/15/2019

#### Paula
**In Process**
 - Entering Bird records manually. Records entered to date: 526 (520 in bulkloader awaiting approval, 6 in Arctos)
 - Creating mollusc bulkload templated and method for bulkloading mollusc records
 - Editing cat# 1-98 mollusc records for bulkloading.
   - deleted and fixing
 - Editing cat# 98-198 mollusc records for bulkloading
 
 **Complete**
 - Bulkloaded 98 mollusc records.
 - Edited bird issues - locality and dates
 
## Discussion Topics

### Social Media
Does the museum have a social media person? Can we coordinate and have the museum post for:
 - Mollusc Monday (Paula)
 - Fossil Friday (Hannah)
 
### Tracking Time
It would be good for us to figure out how long it takes to complete specific tasks.
 - Average time to manually enter a single catalog record
 - Average time to research and add a new taxon name to Arctos
 - Average time to add higher geography (map quads) to Arctos
Anything else?
