# NMMNH Digitization Grant 2019-11-12 Weekly Update

This documents discussion at weekly team meetings

## Progress Report

Total records in Arctos: 1,466 
Total Images Taken: 0

No imaging hardware has been recieved to date.

### Geoscience
#### Teresa
**Complete**
 - Bulkloaded 42 non-conforming Agent names
 - Added definitions for 108 part names in the <a href="https://arctos.database.museum/info/ctDocumentation.cfm?table=CTSPECIMEN_PART_NAME">Arctos Part Name Code Table<a/>.

**In Process**
 - Standardizing Parts
 - Writing data migration documentation.
 - Reviewing names for taxa that are not in Arctos and appear to be invalid per Arctos validation tool. Names added to Arctos to date: 8, Classifications added to Arctos: 25
 
#### Nicole
**Complete**
 - Created the bulkload for 42 non-conforming Agent names
 - Since beginning of project has created 521 agents in Arctos (256 bulkloaded, 265 entered individually). 
 
 **In Process**
 - Standardizing and correcting Agents and bulkloading conforming Agents to Arctos

#### Hannah
**In Process**
 - Creating a Higher Geography bulkload of approximately 2375 Quad Maps. Information has been gathered for Quad Map Bulkload to date: 928
 - Adding names for taxa that are not in Arctos but appear to be valid per Arctos validation tool. Names and classifications added to Arctos to date: 177
 
#### Lucius
**Complete**
 - Created defintions for 108 part names in the <a href="https://arctos.database.museum/info/ctDocumentation.cfm?table=CTSPECIMEN_PART_NAME">Arctos Part Name Code Table<a/>.
 
### Bioscience
#### Teresa
Nothing to report
 
#### Lindsey
**In Process**
 - Standardizing data on remaining Herbarium records for bulkload to Arctos

#### Paula
**In Process**
 - Entering Bird records manually. Records entered to date: 526 (520 in bulkloader awaiting approval, 6 in Arctos)
 
## Discussion Topics

### Social Media
Does the museum have a social media person? Can we coordinate and have the museum post for:
 - Mollusc Monday (Paula)
 - Fossil Friday (Hannah)
 
### Tracking Time
It would be good for us to figure out how long it takes to complete specific tasks.
 - Average time to manually enter a single catalog record
 - Average time to research and add a new taxon name to Arctos
 - Average time to add higher geography (map quads) to Arctos
Anything else?
